THE DOOMSDAY ENGINE
===================
by Jaakko Keränen <jaakko.keranen@iki.fi>

$Date$


INSTALLING
----------

If you're not familiar with compiling stuff in a Unix environment, see
the generic instructions in the INSTALL file.  Doomsday specific
instructions are in Build/COMPILING.


DOCUMENTATION
-------------

The Doc directory contains various documentation about the engine and
the available command line options.  The documents are also available
online: http://www.doomsdayhq.com/


REQUIREMENTS
------------

In addition to the libraries needed to build Doomsday, you will need
one or more IWAD files from a supported game.  For example, DOOM.WAD
from Ultimate Doom would be suitable.  If you don't own any of the
original games (Doom, Heretic or Hexen), you can always use the
shareware/demo versions.

You won't be able to play without an IWAD file!


GLBSP
-----

Get it from glbsp.sourceforge.net.

Run it on all of your WAD files.  This will provide Doomsday with more
accurate map data and get rid of a host of graphical glitches.


ADDITIONAL RESOURCE PACKS
-------------------------

There is a wealth of additional resource packs for Doomsday on the
internet.  One starting point is Doomsday HQ
(http://www.doomsdayhq.com/).  I recommend also visiting the DHQ
Forums for the latest community buzz.

The must-have packs are the 3D models and detail textures.  Since MIDI
music is currently not supported in Linux, you might also wish to
download a music pack (e.g. http://www.sycraft.org/).


RUNNING THE GAME
----------------

These instructions apply to the Linux version of Doomsday.

The default location for the doomsday executable is /usr/local/bin,
but that can be changed by providing your own prefix for the configure
script (see Build/COMPILING).

I recommend creating your own startup scripts for jDoom, jHeretic and
jHexen.  In them, you can specify any command line options you wish to
use.  Below is a simple example.

  #!/bin/sh
  /usr/local/bin/doomsday -game jdoom -file ~/wads/doom.wad \
      -userdir ~/doomsday/jdoom

Before running this script you will need to create the runtime
directory ~/doomsday/jdoom.  All savegame files, message logs and
other such files will be stored in this directory.


RUNNING A DEDICATED SERVER
--------------------------

Start the game as you normally would, but use the "-dedicated" command
line option.  This will make Doomsday run in a text-only console mode.
For instructions on how to configure the server, see Doc/Network.txt.

Quick instructions:


